README.md, before:

# ceph-perf-tool

##Preusage notes

For working only with local per-node util with json output of ceph perf counters no additional libraries required.  

For system metrics (cpu, memory, disk usage) required:

    * psutil

For using as client-server for all ceph nodes listening required:

    * fabric
    * psutil

For table output required:

    * texttable

Client-server works with ssh, so, you need to have password-less access for all ceph nodes from "main" node, where server is started.

Data is sent by udp on specified by used (or 9095 by default) port - take care about network access.

##Usage

###Local tool perfcollect.py

    perfcollect.py [-h] [--json] [--table] [--schemaonly] [--sysmetrics]
                      [--config CONFIG]
                      [--collection COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...]]
                      [--udp UDP UDP UDP] [--runpath RUNPATH]
                      [--timeout TIMEOUT]

    Collect perf counters from ceph nodes

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --json, -j            Output in json format (true by default)
      --table, -t           Output in table format (python-texttable required)
      --schemaonly, -s      Return only schema
      --sysmetrics, -m      Add info about cpu, memory and disk usage
      --config CONFIG, -g CONFIG
                            Use it, if you want upload needed counter names from
                            file (json format, .counterslist as example)
      --collection COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...], -c COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...]
                            Counter collections in format collection_name counter1
                            counter2 ...
      --udp UDP UDP UDP, -u UDP UDP UDP
                            Send result by UDP, specify host, port, packet part
                            size
      --runpath RUNPATH, -r RUNPATH
                            Path to ceph sockets (/var/run/ceph/ by default)
      --timeout TIMEOUT, -w TIMEOUT
                            If specified, tool will work in cycle with specified
                            timeout in secs

    Note, if you don't use both -c and -g options, all counters will be collected.


###Collecting server perfserver.py

    perfserver.py [-h] [--port PORT] [--user USER] [--timeout TIMEOUT]
                     [--partsize PARTSIZE] [--ceph CEPH] --pathtotool
                     PATHTOTOOL [--savetofile SAVETOFILE] [--localip LOCALIP]
                     [--sysmetrics] [--copytool]

    Server for collecting perf counters from ceph nodes

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --port PORT, -p PORT  Specify port for udp connection (9095 by default)
      --user USER, -u USER  User name for all hosts (root by default)
      --timeout TIMEOUT, -w TIMEOUT
                            Max time in sec waiting for answers (30 by default)
      --partsize PARTSIZE, -b PARTSIZE
                            Part size for udp packet (4096 by default)
      --ceph CEPH, -c CEPH  Ceph command line command (ceph by default)
      --pathtotool PATHTOTOOL, -t PATHTOTOOL
                            Path to remote utility perfcollect.py
      --savetofile SAVETOFILE, -s SAVETOFILE
                            Save output in file, filename required
      --localip LOCALIP, -i LOCALIP
                            Local ip for udp answer (if you don't specify it, not
                            good net might be used)
      --sysmetrics, -m      Include info about cpu, memory and disk usage
      --copytool, -y        Copy tool to all nodes to path from -t



##Example

    python perfserver.py -t ~ -p 9096 -y

Commit message:

Add library using and ip getting improvement

README.md, after:

# ceph-perf-tool

##Preusage notes

For working only with local per-node util with json output of ceph perf counters no additional libraries required.  

For system metrics (cpu, memory, disk usage) required:

    * psutil

For using as client-server for all ceph nodes listening required:

    * fabric
    * psutil

For table output required:

    * texttable

Client-server works with ssh, so, you need to have password-less access for all ceph nodes from "main" node, where server is started.

Data is sent by udp on specified by used (or 9095 by default) port - take care about network access.

##Usage

###Local tool perfcollect.py

This tool can be used localy for collection performance info from local ceph instances. Also it is used as client, which can send this info by udp to server - by this way we can collect data from all nodes.

Tool has two modes: one call - one output and one call - multiply output (collecting of performance info by timer)

    perfcollect.py [-h] [--json] [--table] [--schemaonly] [--sysmetrics]
                      [--config CONFIG]
                      [--collection COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...]]
                      [--udp UDP UDP UDP] [--runpath RUNPATH]
                      [--timeout TIMEOUT]

    Collect perf counters from ceph nodes

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --json, -j            Output in json format (true by default)
      --table, -t           Output in table format (python-texttable required)
      --schemaonly, -s      Return only schema
      --sysmetrics, -m      Add info about cpu, memory and disk usage
      --config CONFIG, -g CONFIG
                            Use it, if you want upload needed counter names from
                            file (json format, .counterslist as example)
      --collection COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...], -c COLLECTION [COLLECTION ...]
                            Counter collections in format collection_name counter1
                            counter2 ...
      --udp UDP UDP UDP, -u UDP UDP UDP
                            Send result by UDP, specify host, port, packet part
                            size
      --runpath RUNPATH, -r RUNPATH
                            Path to ceph sockets (/var/run/ceph/ by default)
      --timeout TIMEOUT, -w TIMEOUT
                            If specified, tool will work in cycle with specified
                            timeout in secs

    Note, if you don't use both -c and -g options, all counters will be collected.


###Collecting server perfserver.py

Server for working with all nodes. Server must be started from ceph node, because it find other nodes asking ceph about them.

Server starts perfcollect tool on each ceph node and communicate with it. So, you need have this tool and it's libs (if you want get system metrics) on each node on given in -t argument path. If you don't want copy it by yourself, use -y argument (scp command runs).

Server must have password-less ssh access for other nodes. Specify user, if you have no access to root.

Exit from server now is possible only via Ctrl+C (KeyboardInterrupt)

    perfserver.py [-h] [--port PORT] [--user USER] [--timeout TIMEOUT]
                     [--partsize PARTSIZE] [--ceph CEPH] --pathtotool
                     PATHTOTOOL [--savetofile SAVETOFILE] [--localip LOCALIP]
                     [--sysmetrics] [--copytool]

    Server for collecting perf counters from ceph nodes

    optional arguments:
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      --port PORT, -p PORT  Specify port for udp connection (9095 by default)
      --user USER, -u USER  User name for all hosts (root by default)
      --timeout TIMEOUT, -w TIMEOUT
                            Max time in sec waiting for answers (30 by default)
      --partsize PARTSIZE, -b PARTSIZE
                            Part size for udp packet (4096 by default)
      --ceph CEPH, -c CEPH  Ceph command line command (ceph by default)
      --pathtotool PATHTOTOOL, -t PATHTOTOOL
                            Path to remote utility perfcollect.py
      --savetofile SAVETOFILE, -s SAVETOFILE
                            Save output in file, filename required
      --localip LOCALIP, -i LOCALIP
                            Local ip for udp answer (if you don't specify it, not
                            good net might be used)
      --sysmetrics, -m      Include info about cpu, memory and disk usage
      --copytool, -y        Copy tool to all nodes to path from -t



##Example

Start server on 9096 port with coping of tool to home root directory, get counters difference and others values by default

    python perfserver.py -t ~ -p 9096 -y -d

Start server on default port with system metrics getting and file output, get result every 30 sec

    python perfserver.py -t ~ -w 30 -s test.out -m
